README.md, before:

multitrack
==========

Lightweight multi-track recorder with one or two track recording and stereo mix-down for output.

This project is inspired by the need to run a multitrack recorder in a home recording studio on a budget. It is tested on a Raspberry Pi Model B.
The Raspberry Pi is chosen as a low power, silent device. Files are saved to a USB flash drive and audio is via USB stereo soundcard.

Can record one or two channels of audio whilst playing back any / all tacks, mixed down to stereo. This provides a method of recording but it is intended to perform mixing and mastering in a separate dedicated DAW. Files will be available to import in to another application such as Ardour.

There is a curses user interface, purposefully kept simple. It is intended to add other interfaces such as hardware buttons, MIDI, network, etc.

Key commands:

Up / down arrows - select channel
m - toggle selected channel mute
M - toggle all channels mute (make same as channel 1)
a - toggle record from A (left) input
b - toggle record from B (right) input
L - pan fully left
R - pan fully right
C - pan centre
q - Quit
space - start / stop
home - move playhead to beginning

Compile with: g++ -std=c++11 -lncurses -lasound multitrack.cpp -o multitrack

Commit message:

Fixes recording. Changed record latency to 3ms. Calculate record head offset from record and playback latencies. Changed monitor mixdown to 6dB steps to reduce CPU usage. Added record mode to allow manual punch in/out of several tracks. Play indication now has 2 states (PLAY / STOP) and record enabled indicated by red colour. Added 'c' key shortcut to pan centre attenuated to avoid distortion. Added 'M' keyboard shortcut to toggle mute on selected channel and set all other channels to same mute state. Added 'G' shortcut to toggle record mode - may change. Changed shortcut for clearing errors to 'e'. Added '+' & '-' keyboard shortcuts to adjust record head offset - for debug only, may remove in future. Disabled resampling record and replay audio. Disabled writing record head offset to configuration file. Updated README.

README.md, after:

multitrack
==========

Lightweight multi-track audio recorder, Record one or two tracks whilst replaying a stereo mix-down of any / all tracks. Default is to enable 16 tracks but more or fewer may be used.

This project is inspired by the need to run a multitrack recorder in a home recording studio on a small budget. It is tested on a Raspberry Pi Model B.
The Raspberry Pi is chosen as a low power, silent device. Files are saved to a USB flash drive and audio is via USB stereo soundcard.

Can record one or two channels of audio whilst playing back any / all tacks, mixed down to stereo. This provides a method of recording whilst monitoring previously recorded tracks but it is intended to perform mixing and mastering in a separate dedicated DAW. A multichannel WAVE file contains all tracks which may be imported in to another application such as Ardour or Audacity.

There is a ncurses user interface, purposefully kept simple. It is intended to add other interfaces such as hardware buttons, MIDI, network, etc.

Key commands:

Up / down arrows - select channel
m - toggle selected channel mute
M - toggle all channels mute (make same as channel 1)
a - toggle record from A (left) input
b - toggle record from B (right) input
L - pan fully left
R - pan fully right
C - pan centre
l - pan fully left and pad to allow distortionless mixdown
r - pan fully right and pad to allow distortionless mixdown
c - pan fully centre and pad to allow distortionless mixdown
e - clear error count
q - Quit
space - start / stop
G - toggle record enable
home - move playhead to beginning

Compile with: g++ -std=c++11 multitrack.cpp -o multitrack -lncurses -lasound
